In this video we'll see how we can have multiple inputs multiple arguments for a single function.
First we need to talk about terminology very quickly if we have some function let's call it square and
square except a single input.
Let's just call it NUM and we'll consider it plug Num Times.
No.
OK we'll call it over here.
Square of four it prints 16.
So I said I want to talk about terminology.
We've been using the word argument to refer to the input which is correct for is an argument the actual
value we pass in is an argument.
This right here num is not an argument.
The real term the correct terminology is parameter.
And if I hover it actually tells me here.
Parameter called num a parameter is like the place holder name.
It is this variable that we define when we're writing our function.
And then when we execute the function we pass into value in that number here is the argument.
So argument when we call it parameter when we define it it doesn't really impact how anything works
or how you should understand all of this.
It's just technical stuff that sometimes people mix up and it's just important to get that out of the
way.
All right.
So let's see how we define a function with multiple parameters or another way of saying it is a function
that expects multiple arguments to be passed in.
Let's start with the classic super simple to argument function some.
There are two parameters I'll call them X and Y and we will add them together consider log x plus y
Nice and easy.
We separate them by commas.
Otherwise it's the exact same syntax we just put some name in there a valid identifier and it will hold
whatever value is passed to it in the order does matter.
Now this is not going to do a great job of illustrating that because X and Y won't matter as far as
the order I can pass.
3 come a 4 or 4 come 3 we'll still get 7 but let's just make sure it works 4 and 5 gives us 9 and obviously
5 plus 4 also gives us 9.
So now let's do an example where order does matter.
Let's just do a simple division function or call it divide and we'll do instead of x and y y not a and
b I guess X and Y are more standard for algebra but a and b work as well and all we'll do is constant
log a divided by B okay.
Now let's call it divide 1 by 4 and we get zero point two five.
So whichever argument was passed in first whatever value one in this case will be assigned to a.
So a will be 1 and then the second value will be 4 which gets assigned to be.
So the order is very important in this case if I tried to do four comma one it's completely different
now.
A is four and B is one the order that we define these parameters in dictates the order that they are
filled in from left to right.
So 1 came before 4.
So 1 goes before 4 and if we had written 5 parameters here ABC D and E they would be filled in that
order first one would be a second would be B third would be C and so on.
There are many many issues with this function.
First of all I mean it works with numbers but if I pass something in like a string and a number we don't
have any checks to make sure that we're working with numbers.
And that's OK we're not focused on that for now.
So it takes s and it divides by 4 which is not a number but what I'm trying to show here is that the
function doesn't care.
It is type agnostic it's just going to do whatever you tell it to do with these values.
So what if we just passed in 5.
Well A is going to be assigned 5 B will be undefined.
So we just did B divided by undefined which gives us not a number.
If an argument is missing that parameter whatever it's called in our case B will have a value of undefined.
Just like if we have a variable called B and we don't give it a value it's set to undefined it's the
same idea.
We're essentially saying here's a variable called B and the value will be passed in.
But if we don't pass it in it remains undefined.